Executive Summary
The goal of this case study is to shows methods and techniques to infiltrate a system, attain
privileges in the system and show how data can be extracted from these attacks. The provided
system will contain 5 flags; each flag will represent valuable data scattered inside the system. I
separate the investigation into phases to show the difference steps, with the phases consisting of
finding services and its version, assesing the vulnerability of the system, exploit and attacking the
system, evaluate the data found from the exploit and documentation.
The first flag was achieve using a network reconnaissance software to seek out the service
available inside the system and used exploit against outdated and vulnerable service, I was able to
extract data such as username, password and most of the files inside the sytem. With the
credential found on the system I was able to find the second flag via accessing a service call FTP
which is used to store data when crossing destination as well as an encrypted password file. After
cracking the password file with a software called john I was able to access another service called SSH
which is used to securely access a computer system over the network, inside the service I found
more credentials, backend SQL database code for a website that can be easily modified and insert
my own credenetials as well as flag number three. By modifying the database to put in my own
credential, I was able to access the webpage with the highest privilege and obtain flag four. The
last flag was attainned by using a shell injection attack which manipulates the system to read the
commands using a badly coded network ping service.

Methodology Used
The approach that I used to investigate and compromise the system is separate into various
phases. The first phase is to scout the system and running it through reconnaissance and auxiliary
software to look for the service available in the system, follow by vulnerability assesment phase
which means determine what version is the service in the system and look for vulnerability such as
outdated, poorly secured and badly coded services. The next phase is exploit and testing phase
which is to launch exploitation code towards vulnerable services using exploitation tools such as
metasploitable framework. The following phase is analysing information which is to collect and
evaluate all the relevant information obtained from the compromised service such as login
credentials and backend script. The last phase would be reporting and documentation, writing down
all the trial and error results on the running sheet.

PHASES
Reconnaissance Phase
The method that I used to scout the system is to use network reconnaissance tools such as
masscan, nmap, nikto, metasploitable auxiliary and zenmap to scan all the ports in the system,
determine what service is there and if the port is open or closed. Another step for scouting is to
actually attempt access to the service on the open port to verify that the service is working without
any faults.

Vulnerability assesment
To determine if a service is vulnerable, I have used a CVE.mitre.org webpage which is used to
find out common vulnerabilities and exposures of the version and using the CVE tagged it generated
i was able to find more information about the weaknesses in the exploit database webpage for
example ProFTPD 1.3.1 has a vulnerability which the website tagged as CVE-2009-0542, then I head
to the exploit database webpage and paste in the CVE tag which i was able to find out that it is
vulnerable to sql injection and even provided a perl code exploit .

Exploit Phase
With the information gathered from the previous steps, there are a few methods that
system exploitation can be conducted, the first method is to use the vulnerability code found on the
explotation database website and transfer it to metasploitable framework and execute it using the
feature provide. The second method is to search for exploit saved in the metasploitable archive such
as proftpd mod sql exploit. Another approach for attempting to gain access of the system is to launch
attacks such as web attacks, password cracking and brute-forcing with tools and techniques e.g. SQL
injection, XSS cross site scripting, john the ripper, patator, rockyoutxt brute force, beEF framework
etc.

Information evaluation and documentation
If any exploitation is successful, the data gathered will be analysed, determine if its helpful
on accessing other services.for example, if a username is found via metasploitable it would shorten
the brute force time for a login. All the trial and error steps and results will also be document in a
running sheet and the report.
